---
title: "Exploring the Cosmos with DESI: BAO and RSD measurements"
collection: talks
type: "Talk"
permalink: /talks/2024-04-18-talk-1
venue: "CSST Discussion"
date: 2024-04-18
location: "Beijing, China"
---

[More information here](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1zE421K732/?vd_source=2a4f0c1ba2ad01da9e395325285c2d16)

As the successor to the successful Stage-III BOSS redshift survey and complementing imaging surveys such as DES, CSST, and LSST, DESI embarks on a groundbreaking journey to unravel the properties of dark energy and the evolution of our universe. DESI&apos;s planned five-year survey across 14,000 square degrees will target luminous red galaxies (LRGs), [OII] emission line galaxies (ELGs), and quasars, obtaining over 30 million galaxy and quasar redshifts. A large number of redshifts allow the measurement of baryon acoustic oscillations (BAO) with unprecedented precision. Using the initial two months of unblinded data, DESI achieves a 5σ level detection in the LRG sample and a 3σ significance in the BGS sample. Such precision is similar to the final BOSS result after years of operation, demonstrating DESI’s competitiveness as a Stage-IV BAO experiment. DESI&apos;s two-point correlation measurements will also detect the anisotropies in galaxy clustering — redshift space distortions (RSD), offering insights into gravity&apos;s properties across different epochs. In addition, DESI can also explore neutrino mass, primordial density fluctuations, and potential modified gravity indicators. In this talk, I will first briefly introduce how DESI measures BAO and RSD, highlighting the source of systematic errors; then, I will focus on the DESI Year 1 cosmology results released on April 4, 2024, and their implications.
